
                        Additional DOS Information

Cold Boot: Refers to starting the computer by turning on the switch.  Diagnostic
routines contained on a ROM chip are executed.  The bootstrap loader (also on a
ROM chip) is also executed.  The bootstrap loader is a program that finds the
three DOS system files on a diskette or hard drive and copies these 3 files into
memory.

Warm Boot: Initiated by pressing the CTRL, ALT, and DELETE keys; this is a
restart of the computer.  The same thing occurs with a warm boot as with a cold
boot except that the diagnostic routines are not executed.  Always use a warm
boot when you need to restart the system.  Turning the computer off and on may
harm the electronic circuitry.

There are two versions of DOS:
  PC-DOS: Written for IBM computers; the DOS system files are named
            COMMAND.COM   IBMBIO.COM    IBMDOS.COM

  MS-DOS: Written for IBM compatible systems; the DOS system files are named:
            COMMAND.COM   IO.SYS        MSDOS.SYS

COMMAND.COM is a user (visible) file, and the other 2 files are hidden files. 
COMMAND.COM, although it is a single file, contains a collection of small
programs.  One of these programs is called the command interpreter and is
responsible for validating and interpreting each of the DOS commands that the
user types in.  The rest of the programs in COMMAND.COM are the programs
associated with INTERNAL commands.

DOS Commands that you should know:

DATE          (display/change the system date)

TIME          (display/change the system time)

VER           (display the current version of DOS)

d:            (changes the default drive to d)

CLS           (clears the screen and homes the cursor in top left)

HELP command  (displays information about the command)

DIR             (displays all user files on the default drive)
  DIR  d:       (displays all user files on drive d)
  DIR /P        (pauses between each screen-full of the file list)
  DIR /W        (displays files in a wide display with filename only)
  DIR /O        (displays files in alphabetical order)
  DIR /S        (dispalys files in all subdirectories)
  DIR /A        (Displays user and hidden files)  
  DIR filespec  (displays a list of files with a specific name,
                 single name or wildcarded name)

VOL       (displays the volume label of the disk in the default drive)
  VOL  d:

LABEL     (adds, deletes, or modifies the volume label of the disk)
  LABEL d:

COPY
  COPY  filename1   filename2 (makes a duplicate copy of filename1 on the same
                                disk and names it filename2)
  COPY  filename1   d:filename1 (makes a duplicate copy of filename1 and puts it
                                  on the disk in drive d with the same name)
  COPY  filename1   d:filename2 (makes a duplicate copy of filename1 and puts it
                                  on the disk in drive d and names it filename2)

DEL     (removes filename1 from the directory of the disk in the default drive)
  DEL filename1   
  DEL d:filename1

TYPE    (displays the contents of an ASCII (DOS) text file)

SYS d:  (copies the DOS system files to the drive (d) specified)

CHKDSK          (checks the disk in the default drive)
  CHKDSK d:     (checks the disk in drive d)
  CHKDSK /V     (checks the disk in the default drive and displays a list of
                  all files)
  CHKDSK d: /V  (checks the disk in drive d and displays a list of all files)
  This command shows summary information about the disk including total disk
  space, number of hidden files, number of user files, and space remaining on
  the disk.  With the /V option, this is the only command that lists the names
  of all files, both user and hidden.

EDIT    (executes the editor which allows creation of text files)

CD  (changes the current default directory)
MD  (creates a new subdirectory)
RD  (removes a subdirectory)

ATTRIB    (Displays or sets the attributes of the selected files)
  ATTRIB d:
  ATTRIB d:*.*  [attributes]
  ATTRIB d:L*.* [attributes]
  Attributes: 
    +R  sets the file to read only    -R removes the read only status
    +H  sets the file to hidden     -H removes the hidden status
    +S  sets the file to system     -S removes the system status

FORMAT d:   (initializes a new disk so that it can be used to store
              information)

Results of the FORMAT command:
    1.  Divides the disk into tracks and sectors so that each part of the disk
        is addressable
    2.  Writes on each sector of the disk to check for defects on the disk.
    3.  Creates the directory structure to hold the list of all filenames on
        the disk along with size, date, time, and address (track, sector, side)
        of each file.
    4.  Creates the file allocation table (FAT) which lists each address
        (track, sector, side) on the disk and its status (in use, free, or
        defective).
    5.  Copies the boot record to side 0, track 0, sector 1.  The boot record
        contains the bootstrap program and format information (how the disk was
        formatted, HD or DD, 1 side or 2 sides, etc.).

Wildcarding file references:
  All user files:   *.*
  All user files that begin with a certain letter (L):   L*.*
  All user files that have the same extension (EXT):   *.EXT
  All user files that begin with a certain letter and have the same extension: 
    L*.EXE
  All user files on another drive (d):    d:*.*
  All user files that begin with a certain letter (L) on another drive (d):             d:L*.*
  All user files that have the same extension (EXT) on another drive (d):               d:*.EXT
  All user files that begin with a certain letter and have the same extension on
    another drive (d):  d:L*.EXE
